---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Fraud and Misappropriation"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2016-02-06
published: true
labels:
  - Fraud and Misappropriation
---
The Koss Corporation has been under investigation for several different acts of fraud due to the former Vice President of Finance, Sujata “Sue” Sachdeva, being held responsible for embezzling $34 million from the company. There are several fraud risk factors for misappropriation of assets that were present at Koss Corporation. The company lacked segregation of duties as only one accountant, Julie Mulvaney, was responsible for making journal entries, reconciling accounts receivable, reconciling the company’s bank statements, ordering cashier’s checks, processing wire transfers, and checking the daily account balances. Each of these processes should be completed by different employees in order to maintain internal control and reduce the risk of misappropriation of assets. An inadequate transaction authorization system of processes is also another cause of risk factors for misappropriation of assets since Sachdeva was able to approve purchases without another person's review or authorization. Thresholds for large transaction expenditures should also be put into place to be reviewed by other qualified personnel. There is also inadequate management oversight of employees who are responsible for assets as only Sachdeva was overseeing Julie Mulvaney’s work. If more managers were overseeing and verifying her work, then there would be a lower chance of misappropriation of assets. Reconciliation of assets on a timely basis is also essential for ensuring that expenditures are being made for business purposes and that vendor invoices and banking statements are reconciled with the company’s financial statements. Also the unusually fast and large growth of Sachdeva’s income that could support her massive spending sprees should have raised more suspicions of where her income is coming from, as drastic sudden changes in lifestyle and spending behaviors could signify misappropriation of company assets. Lastly, building relationships by Sachdeva co-chairing a fundraiser with an outside auditor could potentially lead to a breach of the auditor’s independence of affiliation with the company. 
 It is not appropriate for one individual to hold five significant senior management positions simultaneously in a publicly traded company due to several factors. Firstly being the fact that this raises concerns with integrity and accountability. If one person holds all of the senior management positions, then there would be no one to verify his work and ensure that he is maintaining exceptional standards. Also having this many positions requires an extraordinary amount of knowledge and experience in running publicly traded companies. This raises the concern of having incompetent management that is not able to complete all of their duties to an exceptional standard. This is also very impractical as different management positions are created to ensure that different aspects of the business are being focused on by experienced and competent personnel in order to maximize awareness of the business’s many operations. If one person is in control of all senior management positions, then there is the risk that he will be spread too thin and won’t be able to oversee everything. In the situation of Koss Corporation, it states that Koss had little to no experience or educational background in many of the positions that he held. This allowed Sachdeva to easily sneak money since Koss was inexperienced and did not know all of what the duties of his positions entailed. 
