---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Preparing For WODs"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-09-18
published: true
labels:
  - Preparing For WODs
---
For these three WODs, they focus on creating dynamic web pages through the use of many different functions and techniques. BrowserHistory6 expanded off of the BrowserHistory3 file and inputted the use buttons in place of hrefs which were linked to different HTML files for the respective browser information. The stylesheets were also changed in order to account for the button changes so that the web pages were able to populate with the new information in an organized and neat manner.  For the Invoice1 WOD, it covered the use of dynamically updated tables to fill in different product’s transaction information that appeared on a sales invoice. Each variable and its respective calculations were defined and later pulled into the table using the document.write function in their respective row instead of having to manually hardcode the information into the table directly. For the SmartPhoneProducts1 Variables WOD, we needed to update the Lab4 SmartPhoneProdcuts1 file so that products_display.html dynamically updated from a javascript file. We did this by copying over the data used in the HTML and pasting it into a javascript file and linking the data from the .js file through the document.write method. 

<strong> BrowserHistory6: </strong><i> 13.19 - RX.</i> For this WOD, I found that the first time I completed the WOD, I found that my stylesheet was not correctly formatting my browser html’s with the respective style (Firefox, Chrome, and ie). This ended up stumping me for a while because I ensured that I had properly saved the files before loading my web page. I found that after a few minutes, the reason that it wasn’t updating was because I did not correctly link my style2.css to my browser html. This was a very minor error but it caused me to need to restart my recording in order to reach the RX score. After this, my second attempt went relatively smoothly but I did realize that I incorrectly mixed the single quotation mark with a double quotation mark resulting in an error message popping up. I was able to quickly identify and correct why the error was popping up because I had previously run into a similar issue in the BrowserHistory3 WOD. I finished this WOD on my second attempt with the RX rating.

<strong> Invoice 1: </strong><i> 24.36 - AV.</i> In this WOD, I found that it was relatively simple to do since the calculations weren't very complicated. Though it wasn’t very complicated, I did find that it was very tedious since I needed to go back and update all of the product’s with their respective item numbers. I found this out when I was trying to update the table dynamically with the document.write code in the table rows. I saw that when I had made all the updates to the table and I loaded my web page, it was only bringing up the product 1’s data information and not the rest of the other products data. To fix this, I needed to go back and update the remaining products’ information with the respective data pulled from the table. Once I was able to make these updates, I was able to refresh my web page and the remaining products were updated dynamically with the correct information for their respective item #s. The rest of the WOD I was able to complete smoothly finishing with an average score on my first attempt.

<strong> SmartPhoneProduct1 Variables: </strong><i> 8:34 - RX.</i> For this WOD, my biggest difficulty was remembering which directory I was working on. When I copied over the SmartPhoneProduct1 from my Lab4 to the WOD folder, I forgot to make sure that I was making the changes to the new folder. So for about 5 minutes, I was making the changes on the Lab4 folder instead of the WODs folder and only noticed this when I went to check that the web page was updating correctly. This was a bit frustrating as it was such an easy mistake to make, but still cost me enough time for me to need to restart my recording. This pointed out the importance of checking back to the web page after any changes are made so that I will know if I am making a mistake sooner. The next attempt that I made, I was able to run through it with little difficulty, finishing with a RX score on my second attempt. 

All in all, these WODs showed me how useful dynamic web pages can be for using and displaying different types of information. BrowserHistory6 showed me that there are alternative ways to display the same information presented in BrowserHistory3 but in a neat and organized manner. By splitting up the information by linking it to buttons helped greatly to reduce the amount of clutter shown on a single webpage. It also made the href links appear much nicer by including interactive buttons that displayed the same information but on a different webpage individually designed for that specific browser. Invoice 1 was useful for showing how to use and update information dynamically using the document.write function. This was very useful as any updates to the product’s price or quantity was able to instantly update their respective calculations and input the data directly into the table. Lastly, the SmartPhoneProducts1 Variables was useful for showing me how to update my html file by pulling information from a javascript file. I found this especially useful for keeping organized and decluttering the html’s data by separating the data into different files. This was also useful for verifying that data is being pulled properly from the javascript file into the html file as the console.log script will be shown on the client-side (browser) console.
